Mar3 blog (#1051)
Azure/azure-sdk: _posts/2020-03-02-java-pluggable-http.md

---

> title: Pluggable HTTP Modules in the Azure SDK for Java

Reviewer: Consider "with" instead of "in"

layout: post

> date: 02 Mar 2020

Reviewer: Title has mar3 this has mar2

sidebar: releases_sidebar
repository: azure/azure-sdk
---

> When we re-imagined the Azure SDK, we came up with [some key principles](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/general_introduction.html) that we would use when writing the SDK:

Reviewer: https://aka.ms/azsdkguide also works.

* **Idiomatic** - they should feel like they were meant for the language.

> * **Consistent** - each service should be configured the same way.

Reviewer: configured here makes it sound like the dev has to configure something.  

each service should be exposed the same way?

> * **Approachable** - getting off the ground should be easy.

Reviewer: started instead of off the ground?

> * **Diagnosable** - developers should understand what is going on.

Reviewer: how to track down issues or debug, instead of "what is going on"

* **Dependable** - avoid breaking changes.

> There are more details behind these simple principles, but these are our guides when designing the client libraries.  When we designed the initial HTTP pipeline for the Azure SDK for Java, we made specific choices that are well known for service developers who use the Spring Framework - [Project Reactor](https://projectreactor.io/) provides the asynchronous reactive library that allows us to build non-blocking applications, and [Netty](https://netty.io/) provides the HTTP transport layer.  These are the same choices used by the Spring Framework.  If you are developing Spring applications, then these will be familiar choices.

Reviewer: I feel like there should be a period after Spring Farmework.

What if you aren't using the Spring Framework?  One of the hallmarks of Java development is the rich ecosystem of libraries that are available to you.  You might be using one of the other HTTP transport providers like [OkHttp](https://square.github.io/okhttp/), for instance.  The Azure SDK for Java supports these cases (as do our other languages) with a pluggable HTTP provider.

## Selecting OkHttp as the HTTP transport

> Every Azure service library depends on the Azure Core library to provide the HTTP transport.  This is through a service provider interface (SPI) called `HttpClient`.  We don't build an implementation into Azure Core.  Instead, the implementation is provided by a dependency.  In the default, case, that is `azure-core-http-netty`.

Reviewer 2: Not completely certain on how to wordsmith this a bit, but we don't want to make it sound like non-HTTP clients such as EventHubs and ServiceBus will be pulling an HTTP transport layer as well.

Also, may not be completely intuitive but the SPI is `HttpClientProvider` but that creates `HttpClient`s.

```suggestion
Every HTTP-based Azure service library depends on the Azure Core library to provide the HTTP transport.  This is done through a service provider interface (SPI) called `HttpClientProvider`.  We don't build an implementation into Azure Core.  Instead, the implementation is provided by a dependency.  In the default, case, that is `azure-core-http-netty`.
```

  <artifactId>azure-core-http-okhttp</artifactId>
  <version>1.1.0</version>
</dependency>
```

If the default dependency is removed (via the exclusion), but no implementation is given in its place, the application will fail to start.

## Configuring the HTTP transport

All services rely on this transport layer, which makes it a great option to set global settings that your organization needs.  For example, let's say you have a HTTP proxy in your enterprise.  You can create your own HTTP transport:

```java
InetSocketAddress proxyService = new InetSocketAddress(proxyHost, proxyPort);
ProxyOptions proxyOptions = new ProxyOptions(ProxyOptions.Type.HTTP, proxyService)
    .setCredentials(proxyUser, proxyPassword);
HttpClient httpClient = new OkHttpAsyncHttpClientBuilder()
    .proxy(proxyOptions)
    .build();
```

You can also use `NettyAsyncHttpClientBuilder` for this same functionality.  You can now pass the resulting `HttpClient` object into any service builder:

```java
SecretClient client = new SecretClientBuilder()
        .vaultUrl(keyVaultUrl)
        .credential(new DefaultAzureCredentialBuilder().build())
        .httpClient(httpClient)
        .buildClient();
```

> If OkHttp and Netty are not your favorite libraries, then you can also [write your own HTTP client plugin](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/wiki/Custom-HTTP-clients).  Let us know if you do this.  We'd love to hear why and how you got on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If OkHttp and Netty doesn't fit your requirements or aren't your favorite libraries, you can also [write your own HTTP client plugin](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/wiki/Custom-HTTP-clients).  Let us know if you do this, we'd love to hear why and how the process went.
```
